Received: (qmail 8083 invoked from network); 21 Jan 2003 03:24:24 -0000
Received: from unknown (HELO mailshell.com) (71.129.195.163)
  by dev50.mailshell.com with SMTP; 21 Jan 2003 03:24:24 -0000
Received: (qmail 28571 invoked by uid 99); 21 Jan 2003 03:24:23 -0000
Received: (qmail 6444 invoked from network); 21 Jan 2003 03:24:19 -0000
Received: from unknown (HELO mail.vegweb.com) (68.54.0.180)
  by www.mailshell.com with SMTP; 21 Jan 2003 03:24:19 -0000
Received: from mail.vegweb.com (localhost [127.0.0.1])
	by mail.vegweb.com (8.12.2/8.12.2/SuSE Linux 0.6) with ESMTP id h0KNQQ5V006534
	for <monthlynewsletter-outgoing@mail.vegweb.com>; Mon, 20 Jan 2003 18:26:26 -0500
Received: (from majordom@localhost)
	by mail.vegweb.com (8.12.2/8.12.2/Submit) id h0KNQQE1006532
	for monthlynewsletter-outgoing; Mon, 20 Jan 2003 18:26:26 -0500
Date: Mon, 20 Jan 2003 18:26:26 -0500
Message-Id: <200301202326.h0KNQQE1006532@mail.vegweb.com>
X-Authentication-Warning: mail.vegweb.com: majordom set sender to owner-monthlynewsletter@mail.vegweb.com using -f
From: Yvette <owner-monthlynewsletter@mail.vegweb.com>
To: "Mailshell User" <nospam@mailshell.com>
Subject: VegWeb Monthly Newsletter
Sender: owner-monthlynewsletter@mail.vegweb.com
Precedence: bulk

VegWeb Newsletter #64 http://www.vegweb.com/
January 20, 2003

To unsubscribe, see:
http://www.vegweb.com/cgi/lists.cgi/monthlynewsletter/unsubscribe.html
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents
Articles:
  Dealing With Doctors During Your Vegan Pregnancy by Erin Pavlina
  Basmati Rice - The Quality Grain by Anai Rhoads
For Your Information (FYI)
Membership Information
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Articles:

Dealing With Doctors During Your Vegan Pregnancy
by Erin Pavlina

How it all began?
When I became pregnant in June, 1999, I couldn't be happier. A year
earlier I had suffered an early miscarriage and it took us almost a
year to get pregnant again. The life inside me was the most precious
thing and I wanted to be sure I made a healthy environment for it. No
problem; I was a vegan so I knew I was giving my baby the best
possible start in life.

Enter my doctors
I was part of an HMO where you weren't allowed to choose a physician,
you simply saw whoever they assigned you to at each appointment. I had
wanted a homebirth with a midwife but our financial situation made
that unlikely. I resigned myself to the care of doctors who would
change at every appointment, making it difficult for any of them to
get to know me or my family.

Revealing my "secret"
I felt obligated to tell the first doctor I saw that I was a
vegan. She immediately set me up with an appointment with the
nutritionist on staff. Dutifully, perhaps too dutifully, I went. I was
pleasantly surprised to find the nutritionist was a vegetarian. But
she still admonished me to get enough protein and asked me to consider
adding meat to my diet occasionally just to ensure adequate protein. I
came home from that appointment in tears because I was confused. I
believed wholeheartedly in the vegan diet. I had read Pregnancy,
Children, and the Vegan Diet by Dr. Michael Klaper; this was such an
informative book, I used it as my bible. My husband reassured me that
my diet was fine.

Enter my brother
Word spread rapidly through my family that I was still going to be a
vegan during pregnancy. My mom's friends expressed much concern, but I
ignored them since they were only annoying my mom and not me. But one
day I got a call from my brother who laid into me about adequate
protein consumption. He was positive I wasn't getting enough
protein. He told me I was harming my baby. I couldn't get a word in
edgewise. I hung up from that call also in tears. I immediately went
out and bought all kinds of legumes and nuts and binged on them to
ensure I got enough protein.

I learn to keep quiet
I stopped mentioning my diet to anyone. Thankfully, I had my husband
for support and he was so strong in his convictions that he really
bolstered my confidence. I stopped mentioning my diet to the doctor du
jour and since they rarely read the chart before seeing me, no one
brought it up. I continued to eat healthy and take care of myself and
my precious baby. I avoided everyone who had anything negative to
say.

Saying no to tests
I could write a book about all the tests I was offered. Before
agreeing to any of them, I weighed my options carefully and did my
homework on each one. I declined the AFP test and had to endure three
lectures about it from three different doctors. I declined
amniocentesis when the ultrasound showed a .67% chance of Trisomy 18
(a fatal genetic disorder). I declined the 3 hour glucose test when my
1 hour test came back borderline. At 20 weeks of pregnancy my weight
gain was a mere 4 pounds. They were concerned since this was
apparently below average. They sent me to the nutritionist one more
time and after reviewing my food diary she signed off on my chart that
my diet was healthy and adequate and told me I was doing fine.

My doctor loses her temper
At 30 weeks of pregnancy with a weight gain of only 8 pounds, the
doctor I was seeing that day went crazy when she read on my chart that
I was a vegan. "You'd better stop dieting. You're killing your child,"
she said. I politely informed her I was not ON a diet, I simply was a
vegan. She told me to add some Carnation Instant Breakfast drink to my
diet. I told her I couldn't do that. She literally lost her temper and
told me she couldn't treat someone who so blatantly was trying to harm
her child. She slammed my file on the counter and stormed out. I heard
her complaining to one of my previous doctors in the hallway. Here is
what I heard her say, "I can't treat this woman. I don't understand
her diet and I can't get her to drink any milk. How am I supposed to
treat her?" The doctor said, "Her diet is fine. I've consulted with
the nutritionist and there's nothing wrong with her diet. Now go back
in there and be professional." She came back in and told me she was
ordering 3 blood tests to check my vital organs and their
functioning. I agreed to the tests, curious to see the results
myself. She also told me she never wanted to see me again and to be
sure I made my next appointment with another physician. We actually
agreed on something. The word in the hallway was that I was a problem
patient, that I questioned my doctors decisions, and basically no one
wanted to deal with me. They sent a therapist in to see me to make
sure I didn't want to harm my baby and to make sure I wasn't a threat
to my unborn child. The nerve! One wonders if they ever send the
therapist in to see the carnivorous women who, in my mind, are doing
far more damage to their children from their diets than I was on
mine.

The results
The therapist and I got along great and she also signed off on my
chart that I wasn't a threat to my baby. The blood tests measured the
functioning of 10 of my vital organs (don't ask me how, they just
did). The results amazed the doctor of the day. She said, "Well, in
all my years of perinatology, I've never seen anyone with levels as
good as yours. Your organs are functioning so well that your numbers
don't even appear on the chart." With a new confidence I continued on
with my pregnancy. I delivered a healthy baby girl at 38 weeks. To
read about the labor and delivery go to: Emily's Birth Story,
http://www.vegfamily.com/vegan-pregnancy/birth-stories/emily1.htm

The Moral of the Story
My diet was fine. I was fine. My baby was healthy. In medical terms
she scored an 8 and 9 on her Apgars. I ended up gaining 20 pounds
total during pregnancy and lost 30 within 2 weeks of giving
birth. Nice bonus there! So my advice is this:

* Avoid telling anyone about your diet unless you really feel they need
to know about it.
* Understand everything about the prenatal tests they want you to
take. Sometimes the benefits outweigh the risks and sometimes they
don't. Make an informed decision before consenting. The internet is a
wonderful place for information on prenatal testing.
* Stand proud and tall. Be strong in your conviction.
* If your doctor browbeats you, switch doctors.
* If you have the option, find a doctor or midwife who supports your
diet fully.
* Do not let any unqualified medical personnel make comments to you
about your diet.
* Obtain "Pregnancy, Children, and the Vegan Diet" by Dr. Klaper.
http://www.vegfamily.com/book-reviews/pregchilvegandiet.htm. You'll be
glad you did.
* Eat healthy. If you are into vegan junk food, like I was, make a more
conscious effort to eat whole grains, fruits and fresh veggies before
you reach for those donuts and candy bars.
* Exercise at least a little bit each day.
* If you are dealing with an adversarial doctor, try to bring someone
with you to your appointments that will help support you.
* Relax during your pregnancy, put your feet up, write a love letter to
your baby, and listen to classical music.

Bottom line
Be informed, get the facts, and be proud of your diet. Your decision
to have a vegan pregnancy is the healthiest thing for your baby.

Erin Pavlina is the Editor of VegFamily, http://www.vegfamily.com/,
the Magazine for Vegan Family Living. She is the author of Raising
Vegan Children in a Non-Vegan World,
http://www.vegfamily.com/bookstore/, and her articles have appeared in
numerous magazines. She lives in Los Angeles with her vegan husband,
Steve, and lifelong vegan daughter, Emily.

		    -----------------------------------

Basmati Rice - The Quality Grain
By Anai Rhoads

Origins
First discovered thousands of years ago in the foothills of the
infamous Himalayas, Basmati (bahs-MAH-tee) rice has made its way
around the world and is enjoyed by countless people.
Rice, in general, has been considered a fundamental source of
nutrition in parts of Asia for many generations, and remains the
staple food of more than 70% of the world's population. [2] It was,
and still is, a very important trademark to the Asian community. The
West gladly opened its arms to embrace this food, and made it clear
that Basmati would not be just another trend.

All rice is considered a complex carbohydrate and nutritious. You will
find that enriched rice now comes with folic acid added for
reproductive and prevention of Spina Bifida. Basmati ranks top for
being the richest of all rice in amino acids and other essential
nutrients, including iron, niacin, phosphorus, potassium, riboflavin
and thiamine.

You will find Basmati in a white or brown variety. The brown Basmati
is packed with fibre, has a stronger flavour and takes additional time
to cook. Both are great as a bedding for your favourite sauces or as a
side dish to steamed veggies.

This long-grained rice is unsurprisingly the most expensive to
purchase of all the rice varieties. The more Basmati has been aged,
the more value it has to the consumer. The battle to gain control over
its name and core market has left some with clear gain, while others
suffer a great loss to their economy. [1]

China is considered the largest producer of Basmati rice to date. In
second place comes India, for which Basmati is one of the fastest
growing export items: the country's farmers export $250 million worth
every year. India has the largest area under rice of any country,
accounting for about 31% of the land surface. [3]

Preparation
Cooking times are much like the typical rice you use at home. Always
remember to boil the water before using the rice. You might then add a
little olive oil and salt (optional) to the water. For each cup of
Basmati, it will yield 3 cups when cooked.

Cover the pot tightly right after the first quick stir. The best
container to use is a teflon non-stick pot that offers a transparent
lid for viewing. Reduce heat and allow to simmer for about 20 minutes.

There are literally hundreds if not thousands of wonderful recipes
based around Basmati rice. If you are a novice with Basmati, then try
the simple recipe below to get you started.

Recipe

Ingredients
1 cup Basmati rice
1/4 cup frozen french cut beans (you may substitute other frozen
vegetables)
2 tablespoons olive oil
1 teaspoon cumin powder
Salt and pepper to taste (optional)

Instructions

Bring the water to a boil along with the olive oil. Quickly stir in
rice and cover tightly. After reducing the heat to allow for simmer,
set a timer for 20 minutes. Overcooking Basmati tends to make it
chewy.

If you find you have excess water, drain some - not all. The rice will
absorb some water on its own. Just enough to leave it damp.

Incorporate the remaining ingredients after the 20 minutes are
up. This to ensure and preserve their flavour. Stir well, cover, and
allow the rice to absorb the spices. After 5 minutes, the Basmati is
ready to serve.

Basmati is a very aromatic, somewhat "nutty" rice that is aged
considerably to spark optimum flavour. The word "Basmati" literally
means "perfumed one". The name suits it well as it aims to prove
itself with every meal!

Copyright 2003 Anai Rhoads. Permission to reprint this article in its
entirety may be granted with a written request to the author:
anairhoads@rhoadsdev.com

Anai Rhoads is a freelance health and political writer from Virginia,
USA, with work published in several online newspapers from Political
Circus, http://www.politicalcircus.com/, to All Creatures,
http://www.all-creatures.org/. She edits Am-I-Pregnant.com, a women's
reproductive health site, and contributes regularly to the
International Vegetarian Union, http://www.ivu.org, A dedicated vegan
since 2000, she is an advocate of activities which promote animal and
human rights.

[1] The Stealing of Basmati,
http://www.rediff.com/business/1998/mar/12rice.htm, The Rediff
Business Special: Shantanu Guha Ray

[2] Export-Import Asian Rice,
http://www.business-in-asia.com/rice2.html

[3] Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development
Authority (APEDA).

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For Your Information (FYI):

Discounts & Coupons

* EatRaw, http://www.eatraw.com/, January Sale Specials - Any VegWeb
member who mentions "VegWeb" in the comments section of EatRaw's
Online Order Form or via their Phone Order, will receive: 10% Off the
on-sale products listed below - or - 10% Off Their Entire Order & Free
Shipping, if their order is above $100.00 (this sale ends 1/31/03).
  Bariani Extra Virgin Olive Oil, Organic Country Mix Olives w/
  Ascolano, Sevillano & Black Mission Olives, Organic Goji Berries, from
  Tibet, Raw Sweet Apple Walnut Raisin Wafers, Raw Raweo Cookies, Raw
  Organic Pistachios (in shell) and Organic Sun-Dried Mangos

* Shop and purchase Tupperware in the convenience of your own home.  You
can even host an online party to earn free Tupperware.  Order directly
from Renee and receive 1. 10% off the Internet price 2. a free Forget
Me Not container 3. a free Tupperware key chain and catalog.  Host a
book party, Bridal Registry or a Baby Registry directly from Renee,
and in addition to Tupperware's hostess gifts, receive free the Forget
Me Not and the Snack Cup Set.  For information:
ReneeE@my.tupperware.com

* Shop vegan and save! www.VeganEssentials.com is the one-stop shop for
all your vegan needs - we offer non-leather shoes, clothing, food and
sweets, non-leather belts and accessories, bath and body care,
vitamins, cosmetics, candles and more. Visit our store and save both
time and money, and if you type "VegWeb" in the Coupon Code link
before completing your shopping with us you will receive a 5% discount
off of your order total through 1/31/03. Choose compassion over
cruelty - go vegan!

* Receive on-line coupons and discounts by subscribing to the
VeganCoupons,
http://www.vegweb.com/cgi/lists.cgi/vegancoupons/subscribe.html, mailing
list. If you would like to offer a discount for your product(s) to VegWeb
users or advertise specials sales for veg-related products, e-mail
owner-vegancoupons@mail.vegweb.com.

		    -----------------------------------

Current Events

Events calendar
http://www.vegweb.com/cgi/yabbse/index.php?board=;action=newcalendar

The events calendar now includes birthdays of members here at
VegWeb. If a member includes it in their profile, it will be listed on
the calendar. Check the calendar often to see veggie events listed and
to add events happening in your area.

* February 1 - Bay Area Vegfair - The West Coast's largest veg event,
the Bay Area Veg Fair features noted speakers, cooking demos, food
samples, a new international dining cafe and a full exhibit
hall. Don't miss it! http://www.vegfair.org/index2.html

* March 16 - The Healthy Food Fest presented by EarthSave SpaceCoast
Chapter - Eau Gallie Civic Center, 1551 Highland Ave, Melbourne, FL
USA - Free admission http://spacecoast.earthsave.org/TOH.htm
March 22 and 23 - Washington, Seattle Vegfest - Please mark your
calendars for Vegfest 2003 at the new Fisher Pavilion at the Seattle
Center. http://www.vegofwa.org/vegfest/

		    -----------------------------------

New Links Added to Surfing Veggies

Surfing Veggies, http://www.vegweb.com/cgi/surfing/search.pl

The first site was recommended by sparkle_j (Joelle) on the Q&A
Board for all the June Brides out there. Thanks!

* http://www.organicweddings.com - Wedding dresses, wedding gowns,
wedding invitations, favors, gifts, flowers and more - a complete
wedding planning and resource site - organic weddings

* http://www.leapingbunny.org - The coalition of consumer information
on cosmetics. Look for products not tested on animals.

* http://www.sort.org - Save Our Resources Today - Formed to allow an
open forum for those concerned with Conservation, Recycling,
Environmental issues and Animal welfare.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Membership Information:

If you would like to join VegWeb and receive a username and password
to access the utilities on www.vegweb.com, follow this link,
http://www.vegweb.com/cgi/yabbse/index.php?board=;action=register,.

This newsletter is a free service; however, it relies upon those who
pay the voluntary $15 annual membership dues.

For currency as a check or money order in US dollars (please include
your email address for a receipt confirmation), send to:

VegWeb
P.O. Box 13038
Fort Wayne, IN 46866-3038

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Peace and happiness in your kitchen!
VegWeb Staff

