Received: (qmail 18634 invoked from network); 10 Jan 2003 03:35:15 -0000
Received: from dev211.mailshell.com (HELO mailshell.com) (71.129.195.163)
  by dev50.mailshell.com with SMTP; 10 Jan 2003 03:35:15 -0000
Received: (qmail 32683 invoked by uid 99); 10 Jan 2003 03:35:14 -0000
Received: (qmail 14544 invoked from network); 10 Jan 2003 03:35:14 -0000
Received: from unknown (HELO rs.hostasaurus.com) (207.44.208.37)
  by www.mailshell.com with SMTP; 10 Jan 2003 03:35:14 -0000
Received: (qmail 26897 invoked from network); 10 Jan 2003 03:35:23 -0000
Received: from unknown (HELO qmail.hostasaurus.com) (67.29.164.22)
  by rs.hostasaurus.com with SMTP; 10 Jan 2003 03:35:23 -0000
Received: (qmail 22066 invoked from network); 10 Jan 2003 03:35:11 -0000
Received: from unknown (HELO mail.lyrishosting.com) (64.157.8.12)
  by 0 with SMTP; 10 Jan 2003 03:35:11 -0000
Date: Thu, 9 Jan 2003 21:59:05 -0500
Subject: Draper here... The Runway is Clear for Takeoff
To: "Mailshell User" <nospam@mailshell.com>
From: "Draper here" <dave@davedraper.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain;
	charset="iso-8859-1"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
List-Unsubscribe: <mailto:leave-davedraper-134704E@dd.lyrishosting.com>
Reply-To: dave@davedraper.com
Message-Id: <LISTMANAGER-134704-21627-2003.01.09-22.06.20--nospam#mailshell.com@dd.lyrishosting.com>

- - - - - Wednesday, January 8, 2003 - - - - - 

     1 - Draper here... The Runway is Clear for Takeoff
     2 - Draper news 
     3 - IronOnline Bash News
     4 - What's new at davedraper.com 
     5 - Laree here... Trailing thoughts

     1 - Draper here...  The Runway is Clear for Takeoff

Well, wasn’t 2002 a lot of fun? I’m black and blue, and have a slight
limp. My hair is falling out and the doc says the rash is due to nerves.
Living on welfare is not doing my self-image any good, but it is keeping
the beans on the table. At "group," Becky, the community social worker,
assured Laree that though loss of appetite and concurrent weight gain was
unusual, things would probably normalize after she started sleeping again
("The dreams of monsters will subside with continued shock treatment," she
said) and stopped eating wallboard.

We who soar the underside of heaven are in good hands and I don’t know why
we fret. Wars, terrorism, unemployment, national and local fraud, snipers,
financial disarray, spiritual spoil and declining McDonald’s stock prices
are only temporary setbacks, a series of inconveniences, minor slumps to
test our good humor and hardy spirits. Hands on the throttle, Bombers;
eyes on the horizons, roll her over and take her up.

You first.  

As I prepare my newsletter, recall the year gone by, and in jest give it a
"D" for goodness and smiles, I note that offered the choice, I prefer the
tortuous, craggy and overgrown path to the clear and predictable way so
many of us dream about and seek. Who wants to know exactly where one is
going and exactly how one is going to get there? Furthermore, who is
foolish enough to entertain thoughts so frivolous and impractical: a
scientist, a storyteller, a seven-year-old? The best we can do is make a
basic plan, seek wise counsel, visualize its execution (dream), hope for
its achievement (pray) and put it in motion (jump off the cliff). The rest
is what it is.

May I speak apologetically for all of us? (This’ll only take a sec.) In
spite of our beauty, none of us is perfect. Life, though grand beyond
words, is a struggle, often cruel. We gripe; we blame others, we rage and,
eventually, we get over it. We then chuckle in embarrassment, recognizing
the faults and guilt are often our own; we realize that by our own hands
we set ourselves up for the misfortunes or misdeeds that befall us. Twice
blessed, humility follows and understanding is our reward.

Our troubles are our troubles, it seems to me. Our troubles are often our
fortunes. That’s the way I view 2002. Boy, did I learn a thing or two or
ten by the good fortune of troubles that surrounded me in the cloud of
dust gone by. There’s only one way, precipitous and unkind as it might
appear, and that’s forward.

From our growing storehouse of knowledge, let’s decide what we need to do
and do it, that is, jump off the cliff.

How many have lost excess body fat over the past year? Gleeful faces,
hands up... great question, great answers. A hard working gym member
informed me of a nationwide review taken last week to determine the top
resolutions for 2003. The number one pledge of 45% of those interviewed
was to lose weight. Upon the minds of 45 out of every 100 souls invited to
participate in the poll was engraved the burning need and desire to lose
weight. How many more souls are lost, don’t notice their fatness, don’t
care or don’t say, and how many are under-muscled, out of shape and
suffering poor health as a result?

I’m no mind reader, but I suspect the same folks, were they questioned
further on the subject, would reveal their burning, yet un-enunciated wish
to improve their health, strength, appearance, energy, physical abilities
and general well-being -- let’s throw in esteem, attitude, character and
personality as well, just to be sociable. Makes me dizzy; each and every
quality touched upon in this brief paragraph is attainable through regular
exercise and right eating one day at a time. The gold, the gemstones, life
and breath are in us. We poison and neglect them, we let them rust and rot
and grow rigid, disintegrate and die.

I’m encouraged, and only eight days into the year and 800 words into this
week’s song, dance and riddle. Last week I mentioned our gym’s Winterize
Special, the 6-week Get-in-shape offer to lure the interested, yet
hesitant trainees -- the lost sheep at the fence line who know there’s
more to life than wool and nibbling tufts of dry grass -- into the fold.
About 40 folks joined and they are busy and intent and grinning from ear
to ear. Perhaps that’s wincing -- nonetheless it’s a striking facial
expression, indicating conviction and emotion.

I’m counting on them. They are our gym’s portion of the 45% haunted by
declining health and physical condition, disappointment and guilt. It was
the negative that dragged them into the gym and it’ll be the positive that
keeps them there. The job of the iron and steel refuge is to stir in them
the sunshine and warm breeze of exercise and right eating, create a
comfortable atmosphere, exert sufficient pressure and, when the timing is
right, crank up the heat and bring on the winds of change. Iron to the
outsider is cold and heavy, lifeless and punishing. How can anyone develop
a relationship with a pile of metal? I dare you say that in front of your
car or pickup truck, Harley or Sport Utility Vehicle... break its heart.

Welcoming muscle and disposing of excess fat is not a resentful chore, but
a grand project presenting rewards and interesting challenges to grasp and
enjoy. You are in the making of a better and happier person, an improved,
more vital self. Resistance with purpose and understanding is fun and
lovable. The patterns of movement with barbells and dumbbells, the
execution of exercise with natural feeling and form, the focus and peace
of muscular concentration, the control and familiarity of pain that is
strangely agreeable and knowable, the sense of function and power with
each completed rep and set... do these describe a burden of misery, a
sorrowful yoke? There is joy in the practice, sweetness in the
application.

The first thing is to embellish upon the benefits of weight training (a
very long list), it being the safest and most direct route to
re-establishing and furthering well-being and goodness in every way,
insisting it absolutely works. I convince them that the sweet combination
of right eating and exercise is simple, in their control, and adorable. Of
the important and effective priorities in one’s life, good nutrition and
strenuous activity should be in the top five, not listed among such
dubious pursuits as rearranging deck furniture or recalling the names of
NFL players who scored touchdowns in the Superbowls.

There’s comfort in them thar barbells, love in those dumbbells and the
rhythm of nature in the cables that go up and down. Can you hear the music
in the clang and clatter of the steel, the symphonic deep breathing and
groans of exertion? Can you feel the dance as you move from one exotic
movement to the next? The body comes alive with heat and moisture, pump
and burning, extension and contraction, panting and pursuit. On rare
occasions, someone will sneak out the back door, as if escaping from a
madhouse. They’ll be back.

    2 - Laree here, taking over with Draper News...

San Francisco Bay Area readers: Visit Dave at the Barnes & Noble
Booksellers in Walnut Creek, Thursday, February 13, at 7:30pm. This will
be a question and answer session to cover your workout or nutrition
concerns and to chat with Dave; the bookstore is located at 1149 S. Main
Street. For information or directions, call (925) 280-0673.

Stella’s Kitchen -- Stella's new cookbook with fast, nutritious and
lowered-calorie meals -- is already off to a popular start. I hope you’ll
want one of your own to inspire your New Year cooking. Here’s a sampler
packet to get you started:

http://davedraper.com/stellas-sampler.pdf

The order page is here:

http://www.davedraper.com/go4x.mv?ID=Stellas

AOL users <a href="http://www.davedraper.com/go4x.mv?ID=Stellas">click here</a>

    3 - IronOnline Bash News

Your personal invitation to Bash 03 in St. Petersburg, Florida, is here --
none of the details, but plenty of big dreams. Plan ahead; we’d love to
catch up with you in Florida next June.

Len and I got started on accommodation and bbq plans, but don’t have
anything firm enough to report. We’ll get solid news to you shortly.

http://davedraper.com/IOL-Bash03-invitation.html

And our Bash 02 reports and photo archive is here:

http://davedraper.com/IOL-bash02-report-contents.html

     4 - What's New at davedraper.com

December 28... I'm playing a little catch-up today. If December holidays
weren't enough to keep me from my website duties, would lack of power and
phone lines that kept us without internet access for a 11 days be an
acceptable excuse? To wrap up this month's activities, you'll find Dave's
three most recent articles: Bombers Don’t Burn Out, Sunny Storms Ahead and
Allow Not Life to Hang Limply Over the Bedpost.

All of this new stuff is here:
http://davedraper.com/iron-online-whats-new.html

AOL users <a href="http://davedraper.com/iron-online-whats-new.html">click here</a>

    5 - Laree here... Trailing thoughts 

The most common conversation in the gym these days wraps around
anticipated New Year’s crowds; people expect gyms to be packed beginning
around January 2nd. Seems logical, but it doesn’t work that way. Granted
the gyms are busier than the sluggish December, still the new-year fitness
converted take a little longer to give up the holiday spirit. Maybe they
have to rest up from the holidays before spending any more energy.

Probably the busiest day of the year in the gym biz is the third Monday in
January -- I think that’s the longest people can hang onto the holidays
before realizing they’re about to lose their resolution commitment.

Monday stands as our favorite start-up day. I use the psychology of it,
and I’ll bet you do too. But that’s days and days away most of the time,
and when your blood sugar is racing from too much non-nutritious food and
you’re feeling sluggish or even depressed, Monday might just be too long
to wait.

In terms of the effects of blood sugar, your diet fix is as close as your
next meal. Chances are fairly good your eating has been out of whack for a
month or more; there just isn’t enough water, protein, vitamins and
minerals moving around your bloodstream and this makes a person feel dull,
sick... even hopeless.

Do you see yourself in the above paragraph? If yes, I want you to get up
and get some water. Couple of big slugs of water down, go and dig out your
old bottle of vitamins and gulp down a couple of those with another swig
of that clear, cold water. Finally, prepare for your next meal and make
sure the protein portion is bigger than the carb portion (excluding salad
or vegetable -- those are mandatory and can match the protein size, no
problem).

You got it? Within an hour you’ll be back on track; by tomorrow morning
you’ll feel re-vitalized and ready to get back at it. Drink your water,
eat your protein, take your vitamins and be well!

Laree
mailto:ldraper@davedraper.com
http://davedraper.com

--------------------------------------------------------------------

Quick links to support IronOnline:

AOL users <a href="http://www.davedraper.com/go4x.mv?ID=Storefront">click here</a>

Stella’s Kitchen: Creative Cooking:
http://www.davedraper.com/go4x.mv?ID=Stellas

Your Body Revival: Weight Loss Straight Talk:
http://www.davedraper.com/go4x.mv?ID=YourBodyRevival

Brother Iron, Sister Steel, autographed and personalized:
http://www.davedraper.com/go4x.mv?ID=Brother

Dave’s Bomber Blend whey protein powder is here:
http://www.davedraper.com/go4x.mv?ID=Bomber

Super Spectrim, Anabol Naturals, Beverly International & Body Ammo are
here:
http://www.davedraper.com/go4x.mv?ID=Supplements

PS: If you know people who might want to receive this weekly newsletter,
forward them this copy and have them send a blank email to:
join-davedraper@dd.lyrishosting.com

(c) 2003 Dave Draper

---
You are currently subscribed to davedraper as: nospam@mailshell.com
To unsubscribe send a blank email to leave-davedraper-134704E@dd.lyrishosting.com
