Received: (qmail 4023 invoked from network); 7 Jan 2003 20:35:54 -0000
Received: from dev214.mailshell.com (HELO mailshell.com) (71.129.195.163)
  by dev50.mailshell.com with SMTP; 7 Jan 2003 20:35:54 -0000
Received: (qmail 762 invoked by uid 99); 7 Jan 2003 20:35:54 -0000
Received: (qmail 17112 invoked from network); 7 Jan 2003 20:35:53 -0000
Received: from unknown (HELO plantain.ease.lsoft.com) (209.119.0.163)
  by www.mailshell.com with SMTP; 7 Jan 2003 20:35:53 -0000
Received: from walnut (lists.state.gov) by plantain.ease.lsoft.com (LSMTP for Windows NT v1.1b) with SMTP id <2.0035874A@plantain.ease.lsoft.com>; Tue, 7 Jan 2003 15:35:37 -0500
Received: from LISTS.STATE.GOV by LISTS.STATE.GOV (LISTSERV-TCP/IP release
          1.8e) with spool id 124306 for DOSBACK@LISTS.STATE.GOV; Tue, 7 Jan
          2003 15:35:36 -0500
Approved-By: statelists@STATE.GOV
Received: from 164.109.48.44 by WALNUT.EASE.LSOFT.COM (SMTPL release 1.0f) with
          TCP; Tue, 7 Jan 2003 15:28:24 -0500
Received: from 127.0.0.1 (localhost [127.0.0.1]) by www1.state.gov
          (8.11.6/8.11.6) with ESMTP id h07KSOK00006 for
          <DOSBACK@LISTS.STATE.GOV>; Tue, 7 Jan 2003 15:28:24 -0500 (EST)
Content-type: text/plain
Message-ID:  <200301072028.h07KSOK00006@www1.state.gov>
Date:         Tue, 7 Jan 2003 15:27:54 -0500
Reply-To: statelists@STATE.GOV
Sender: "U.S Department of State Background Notes" <DOSBACK@LISTS.STATE.GOV>
From: statelists@STATE.GOV
Subject: Background Note:  Papua New Guinea (01/03)
To: "Mailshell User" <nospam@mailshell.com>
Precedence: list

  U.S. Department of State
  Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs
  Background Note: Papua New Guinea
  January 2003


    PROFILE

    OFFICIAL NAME:
    Independent State of Papua New Guinea

    Geography
    Land area: 452,860 sq. km.; about the size of California.
    Cities: Capital--Port Moresby (pop. 320,000). Other cities--Lae (90,000), Mt.
    Hagen (71,000).
    Terrain: Mostly mountains with coastal lowlands and rolling foothills.
    Climate: Tropical. NW monsoon, Dec-Mar. SE monsoon, May-Oct.

    People
    Population: 4.6 million.
    Annual growth rate: 2.2%.
    Languages: English, Tok Pisin, Motu (official), and about 715 other
    languages.
    Education: Years compulsory--0. Literacy--72.2%.
    Health: Infant mortality rate--59/1,000. Life expectancy--men 57 yrs.; women
    58 yrs.

    Government
    Type: Constitutional monarchy with parliamentary democracy.
    Constitution: September 16, 1975.
    Branches: Executive--British monarch (chief of state), represented by
    governor general; prime minister (head of government).
    Legislative--unicameral parliament. Judicial--independent; highest is Supreme
    Court.
    Administrative subdivisions: 19 provinces and the national capital district
    (Port Moresby).
    Major political parties: People's Progress Party (PPP), Pangu Parti, People's
    Democratic Movement (PDM), Advance Papua New Guinea, and Melanesian Alliance
    (MA).
    Suffrage: Universal over 18 years of age.

    Economy (1999 est., $U.S.)
    GDP: $3.6 billion.
    Growth rate: 4.2%.
    Per capita GDP: $776.
    Natural resources: Gold, copper ore, oil, natural gas, timber, fish.
    Agriculture (25.2% of GDP): Major products--coffee, cocoa, coconuts, palm
    oil, timber, tea.
    Industry (42.8% of GDP): Major sectors--copra crushing; palm oil processing;
    plywood production; wood chip production; mining of gold, silver, and copper;
    construction; tourism; crude oil production.
    Trade (1999): Exports--$2.0 billion: gold, copper ore, oil, timber, palm oil,
    coffee. Major markets--Australia, Japan, Germany, U.K., South Korea, China.
    Imports--$1.8 billion: machinery and transport equipment, manufactured goods,
    food, fuels, chemicals. Major suppliers--Australia, Singapore, Japan, U.S.,
    New Zealand, Malaysia.

    PEOPLE
    The indigenous population of Papua New Guinea is one of the most
    heterogeneous in the world. Papua New Guinea has several thousand separate
    communities, most with only a few hundred people. Divided by language,
    customs, and tradition, some of these communities have engaged in tribal
    warfare with their neighbors for centuries.

    The isolation created by the mountainous terrain is so great that some
    groups, until recently, were unaware of the existence of neighboring groups
    only a few kilometers away. The diversity, reflected in a folk saying, "For
    each village, a different culture," is perhaps best shown in the local
    languages. Spoken mainly on the island of New Guinea--composed of Papua New
    Guinea and the Indonesian province of West Papua--about 650 of these
    languages have been identified; of these, only 350-450 are related. The
    remainder seem to be totally unrelated either to each other or to the other
    major groupings. Native languages are spoken by a few hundred to a few
    thousand, although Enga, used in Enga Province, is spoken by some 130,000
    people. Most native languages are extremely complex grammatically.

    Melanesian Pidgin serves as the lingua franca. English is spoken by educated
    people and in Milne Bay Province.

    The overall population density is low, although pockets of overpopulation
    exist. Papua New Guinea's Western Province averages one person per square
    kilometer (3 per sq. mi.). The Chimbu Province in the New Guinea highlands
    averages 20 persons per square kilometer (60 per sq. mi.) and has areas
    containing up to 200 people farming a square kilometer of land. The highlands
    have 40% of the population.

    A considerable urban drift toward Port Moresby and other major centers has
    occurred in recent years. Between 1978 and 1988, Port Moresby grew nearly 8%
    per year, Lae 6%, Mount Haven 6.5%, Goroka 4%, and Madang 3%. The trend
    toward urbanization accelerated in the 1990s, bringing in its wake squatter
    settlements, unemployment, and attendant social problems. Almost two-thirds
    of the population is Christian. Of these, more than 700,000 are Catholic,
    more than 500,000 Lutheran, and the balance are members of other Protestant
    denominations. Although the major churches are under indigenous leadership, a
    large number of missionaries remain in the country. The bulk of the estimated
    2,500 Americans resident in Papua New Guinea are missionaries and their
    families. The non-Christian portion of the indigenous population practices a
    wide variety of religions that are an integral part of traditional culture,
    mainly animism (spirit worship) and ancestor cults.

    Foreign residents are just over 1% of the population. More than half are
    Australian; others are from the United Kingdom, New Zealand, the Philippines,
    and the United States. Since independence, about 900 foreigners have become
    naturalized citizens.

      * The traditional Papua New Guinea social structure includes the following
        characteristics:
      * The practice of subsistence economy;
      * Recognition of bonds of kinship with obligations extending beyond the
        immediate family group;
      * Generally egalitarian relationships with an emphasis on acquired, rather
        than inherited, status; and
      * A strong attachment of the people to land.

    Most Papua New Guineans still adhere strongly to this traditional social
    structure, which has its roots in village life.

    HISTORY
    Archeological evidence indicates that humans arrived on New Guinea at least
    60,000 years ago, probably by sea from Southeast Asia during an iceage period
    when the sea was lower and distances between islands shorter. Although the
    first arrivals were hunters and gatherers, early evidence shows that people
    managed the forest environment to provide food. There also are indications of
    gardening having been practiced at the same time that agriculture was
    developing in Mesopotamia and Egypt. Early garden crops--many of which are
    indigenous--included sugarcane, Pacific bananas, yams, and taros, while sago
    and pandanus were two commonly exploited native forest crops. Today's
    staples--sweet potatoes and pigs--are later arrivals, but shellfish and fish
    have long been mainstays of coastal dwellers' diets.

    When Europeans first arrived, inhabitants of New Guinea and nearby
    islands--while still relying on bone, wood, and stone tools--had a productive
    agricultural system. They traded along the coast, where products mainly were
    pottery, shell ornaments, and foodstuffs, and in the interior, where forest
    products were exchanged for shells and other sea products.

    The first Europeans to sight New Guinea were probably the Portuguese and
    Spanish navigators sailing in the South Pacific in the early part of the 16th
    century. In 1526-27, Don Jorge de Meneses accidentally came upon the
    principal island and is credited with naming it "Papua," a Malay word for the
    frizzled quality of Melanesian hair. The term "New Guinea" was applied to the
    island in 1545 by a Spaniard, Ynigo Ortis de Retez, because of a fancied
    resemblance between the islands' inhabitants and those found on the African
    Guinea coast. Although European navigators visited the islands and explored
    their coastlines for the next 170 years, little was known of the inhabitants
    until the late 19th century.

    New Guinea
    With Europe's growing need for coconut oil, Godeffroy's of Hamburg, the
    largest trading firm in the Pacific, began trading for copra in the New
    Guinea Islands. In 1884, Germany formally took possession of the northeast
    quarter of the island and put its administration in the hands of a chartered
    company. In 1899, the German imperial government assumed direct control of
    the territory, thereafter known as German New Guinea. In 1914, Australian
    troops occupied German New Guinea, and it remained under Australian military
    control until 1921. The British Government, on behalf of the Commonwealth of
    Australia, assumed a mandate from the League of Nations for governing the
    Territory of New Guinea in 1920. It was administered under this mandate until
    the Japanese invasion in December 1941 brought about the suspension of
    Australian civil administration. Following the surrender of the Japanese in
    1945, civil administration of Papua as well as New Guinea was restored, and
    under the Papua New Guinea Provisional Administration Act, 1945-46, Papua and
    New Guinea were combined in an administrative union.

    Papua
    On November 6, 1884, a British protectorate was proclaimed over the southern
    coast of New Guinea (the area called Papua) and its adjacent islands. The
    protectorate, called British New Guinea, was annexed outright on September 4,
    1888. The possession was placed under the authority of the Commonwealth of
    Australia in 1902. Following the passage of the Papua Act of 1905, British
    New Guinea became the Territory of Papua, and formal Australian
    administration began in 1906. Papua was administered under the Papua Act
    until it was invaded by the Japanese in 1941, and civil administration
    suspended. During the war, Papua was governed by a military administration
    from Port Moresby, where Gen. Douglas MacArthur occasionally made his
    headquarters. As noted, it was later joined in an administrative union with
    New Guinea during 1945-46 following the surrender of Japan.

    Postwar Developments
    The Papua and New Guinea Act of 1949 formally approved the placing of New
    Guinea under the international trusteeship system and confirmed the
    administrative union of New Guinea and Papua under the title of "The
    Territory of Papua and New Guinea." The act provided for a Legislative
    Council (established in 1951), a judicial organization, a public service, and
    a system of local government. A House of Assembly replaced the Legislative
    Council in 1963, and the first House of Assembly opened on June 8, 1964. In
    1972, the name of the territory was changed to Papua New Guinea.

    Elections in 1972 resulted in the formation of a ministry headed by Chief
    Minister Michael Somare, who pledged to lead the country to self-government
    and then to independence. Papua New Guinea became self-governing in December
    1973 and achieved independence on September 16, 1975. The 1977 national
    elections confirmed Michael Somare as prime minister at the head of a
    coalition led by the Pangu Party. However, his government lost a vote of
    confidence in 1980 and was replaced by a new cabinet headed by Sir Julius
    Chan as prime minister. The 1982 elections increased Pangu's plurality, and
    parliament again chose Somare as prime minister. In November 1985, the Somare
    government lost a vote of no confidence, and the parliamentary majority
    elected Paias Wingti, at the head of a five-party coalition, as prime
    minister. A coalition, headed by Wingti, was victorious in very close
    elections in July 1987. In July 1988, a no-confidence vote toppled Wingti and
    brought to power Rabbie Namaliu, who a few weeks earlier had replaced Somare
    as leader of the Pangu Party.

    Such reversals of fortune and a revolving-door succession of prime ministers
    continue to characterize Papua New Guinea's national politics. A plethora of
    political parties, coalition governments, shifting party loyalties and
    motions of no confidence in the leadership all lend an air of instability to
    political proceedings. Under legislation intended to enhance stability, new
    governments remain immune from no-confidence votes for the first 18 months of
    their incumbency.

    GOVERNMENT AND POLITICAL CONDITIONS
    Papua New Guinea, a constitutional monarchy, recognizes the Queen of England
    as head of state. She is represented by a Governor General who is elected by
    Parliament and who performs mainly ceremonial functions. Papua New Guinea has
    three levels of government--national, provincial, and local. There is a
    109-member unicameral Parliament, whose members are elected every 5 years.
    The Parliament in turn elects the prime minister, who appoints his cabinet
    from members of his party or coalition.

    Members of Parliament are elected from 19 provinces and the national capital
    district of Port Moresby. Parliament introduced reforms in June 1995 to
    change the provincial government system, with regional (at-large) members of
    Parliament becoming provincial governors, while retaining their national
    seats in Parliament.

    Papua New Guinea's judiciary is independent of the government. It protects
    constitutional rights and interprets the laws. There are several levels,
    culminating in the Supreme Court. Papua New Guinea's politics are highly
    competitive. Members of Parliament are elected on a "first past the post"
    system, with winners frequently gaining less than 15% of the vote. There are
    several parties, but party allegiances are not strong. Winning candidates are
    usually courted in efforts to forge the majority needed to form a government,
    and allegiances are fluid. No single party has yet won enough seats to form a
    government in its own right.

    Papua New Guinea has a history of changes in government coalitions and
    leadership from within Parliament during the 5-year intervals between
    national elections. New governments are protected by law from votes of no
    confidence for the first 18 months of their incumbency, and no votes of no
    confidence may be moved in the 12 months preceding a national election.

    The last national election was held in June 1997. The election was
    characterized by a large turnover in sitting members of Parliament and a
    number of veteran politicians, including former Prime Ministers Sir Julius
    Chan and Pias Wingti, lost their seats. A large number of independents were
    elected. Eighty-eight of the 109 election victories were challenged by losing
    candidates in the courts, and some elections were annulled. The government
    was formed by a coalition of several parties. Bill Skate, the leader of the
    People's Congress Party, was elected Prime Minister. In July 1999, Skate
    resigned under threat of a motion of no confidence, and the Parliament
    elected Sir Mekere Morauta Prime Minister, leaving Skate leader of the
    opposition. Many members of the Morauta cabinet served Skate as ministers.

    On Bougainville Island, a rebellion had been under way from early 1989 until
    a truce came into effect in October 1997 and a permanent cease-fire was
    signed in April 1998. Under the eyes of a regional peace-monitoring force and
    a UN observer mission, the government and provincial leaders have established
    an interim government and are working toward election of a provincial
    government and a referendum on independence.

    Principal Government Officials
    Governor General--Sir Silas Atopare
    Prime Minister--Sir Mekere Morauta
    Ambassador to the United States--Nagora Bogan

    Papua New Guinea maintains an embassy at 1779 Massachusetts Ave. NW,
    Washington, DC 20036 (tel. 202-745-3680; fax 202-745-3679). The Papua New
    Guinea mission to the United Nations is at 801 Second Avenue, New York, NY
    10017 (tel. 212-682-6447).

    ECONOMY
    Papau New Guinea is rich in natural resources, including minerals, timber,
    and fish, and produces a variety of commercial agricultural products. The
    economy generally can be separated into subsistence and market sectors,
    although the distinction is blurred by smallholder cash cropping of coffee,
    cocoa, and copra. About 75% of the country's population relies primarily on
    the subsistence economy. The minerals, timber, and fish sectors are dominated
    by foreign investors. Manufacturing is limited, and the formal labor sector
    consequently also is limited.

    Mineral Resources
    In 1999 mineral production accounted for 26.3% of GDP. Government revenues
    and foreign exchange earning depend heavily on mineral exports. Indigenous
    landowners in areas affected by minerals projects also receive royalties from
    those operations. Papua New Guinea is richly endowed with gold, copper, oil,
    natural gas, and other minerals. Copper and gold mines are currently in
    production at Progera, Ok Tedi, Misima, and Lihir. New nickel, copper and
    gold projects have been identified and are awaiting a rise in commodity
    prices to begin development. A consortium led by Chevron is producing and
    exporting oil from the Southern Highlands Province of Papua New Guinea. In
    2001, it expects to begin the commercialization of the country's estimated
    22.5 trillion cubic feet of natural gas reserves through the construction of
    a gas pipeline from Papua New Guinea to Queensland, Australia.

    Agriculture, Timber, and Fish
    Papua New Guinea also produces and exports valuable agricultural, timber, and
    fish products. Agriculture currently accounts for 25% of GDP and supports
    more than 80% of the population. Cash crops ranked by value are coffee, oil,
    cocoa, copra, tea, rubber, and sugar. The timber industry was not active in
    1998, due to low world prices, but rebounded in 1999. About 40% of the
    country is covered with exploitable trees, and a domestic woodworking
    industry has been slow to develop. Fish exports are confined primarily to
    shrimp. Fishing boats of other nations catch tuna in Papua New Guinea waters
    under license.

    Industry
    In general, the Papua New Guinea economy is highly dependent on imports for
    manufactured goods. Its industrial sector--exclusive of mining--accounts for
    only 9% of GDP and contributes little to exports. Smallscale industries
    produce beer, soap, concrete products, clothing, paper products, matches, ice
    cream, canned meat, fruit juices, furniture, plywood, and paint. The small
    domestic market, relatively high wages, and high transport costs are
    constraints to industrial development.

    Trade and Investment
    Australia, Singapore, and Japan are the principal exporters to Papua New
    Guinea. Petroleum and mining machinery and aircraft are perennially the
    strongest U.S. exports to Papua New Guinea. In 1999, as mineral exploration
    and new minerals investments declined, so did U.S. exports. Australia is
    Papua New Guinea's most important export market, followed by Japan and the
    European Union. Crude oil is the largest U.S. import from Papua New Guinea,
    followed by gold, cocoa, coffee, and copper ore.

    U.S. companies are active in developing Papua New Guinea's mining and
    petroleum sectors. Chevron operates the Kutubu and Gobe oil projects and is
    developing its natural gas reserves. A 30,000-40,000 barrel-per-day oil
    refinery project in which there is an American interest also is under
    development in Port Moresby.

    Papua New Guinea became a participating economy in the Asia-Pacific Economic
    Cooperation (APEC) Forum in 1993. It joined the World Trade Organization
    (WTO) in 1996.

    Development Programs and Aid
    Australia is the largest bilateral aid donor to Papua New Guinea, offering
    about $200 million a year in assistance. Budgetary support, which has been
    provided in decreasing amounts since independence, was phased out in 2000,
    with aid concentrated on project development. Other major sources of aid to
    Papua New Guinea are Japan, the European Union, the People's Republic of
    China, the Republic of China, the United Nations, the Asian Development Bank,
    the International Monetary Fund, and the World Bank. Volunteers from a number
    of countries, including the United States, and mission church workers also
    provide education, health, and development assistance throughout the country.

    Current Economic Conditions
    By mid-1999, Papua New Guinea's economy was in crisis. Although its
    agricultural sector had recovered from the 1997 drought and timber prices
    were rising as most Asian economies recovered from their 1998 slump, Papua
    New Guinea's foreign currency earnings suffered from low world mineral and
    petroleum prices. Estimates of minerals in exploration expenditure in 1999
    were one-third of what was spent in 1997. The resulting lower foreign
    exchange earnings, capital flight, and general government mismanagement
    resulted in a precipitous drop in the value of Papua New Guinea's currency,
    the kina, leading to a dangerous decrease in foreign currency reserves. The
    kina has floated since 1994. Economic activity decreased in most sectors;
    imports of all kinds shrunk; and inflation, which had been over 21% in 1998,
    slowed to an estimated annual rate of 8% in 1999.

    Citing the previous government's failure to successfully negotiate acceptable
    commercial loans or bond sales to cover its budget deficit, the government
    formed in July 1999 successfully requested emergency assistance from the
    International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. With assistance from the Fund
    and the Bank, the government has made considerable progress toward
    macroeconomic stabilization and economic reform.

    FOREIGN RELATIONS
    Papua New Guinea's foreign policy reflects close ties with Australia and
    other traditional allies and cooperative relations with neighboring
    countries. Its views on international political and economic issues are
    generally moderate. Papua New Guinea has diplomatic relations with 56
    countries.

    U.S.-PAPUA NEW GUINEA RELATIONS
    The United States and Papua New Guinea established diplomatic relations upon
    the latter's independence on September 16, 1975. The two nations belong to a
    variety of regional organizations, including the Asia-Pacific Economic
    Cooperation (APEC) forum; the ASEAN Regional Forum (ARF); the South Pacific
    Commission; and the South Pacific Regional Environmental Program (SPREP).

    One of the most successful cooperative multilateral efforts linking the U.S.
    and Papua New Guinea is the U.S.-Pacific Islands Multilateral Tuna Fisheries
    Treaty, under which the U.S. grants $18 million per year to Pacific Island
    parties and the latter provide access for U.S. fishing vessels. The United
    States has provided significant humanitarian assistance to Papua New Guinea
    during the past 5 years and has contributed to the rehabilitation of
    Bougainville.

    The U.S. also supports Papua New Guinea's efforts to protect biodiversity.
    The U.S. Government supports the International Coral Reef Initiative aimed at
    protecting reefs in tropical nations such as Papua New Guinea.

    U.S. military forces, through the Pacific Theater Command in Honolulu,
    Hawaii, carry out annual bilateral meeting with the Papua New Guinea Defense
    Force (PNGDF). The U.S. also provides police and other education and training
    courses to national security officials.

    The U.S. Peace Corps ceased operations in Papua New Guinea in 2001 due to
    security concerns. About 2,500 U.S. citizens live in Papua New Guinea, with
    major concentrations at two missionary headquarters in Eastern Highlands
    Province.

    Principal U.S. Embassy Officials
    Ambassador--Susan Jacobs
    Deputy Chief of Mission--Ted Pierce
    Economic Officer--James Garry
    Consular Officer--Edward Bestic

    The U.S. Embassy in Papua New Guinea is located on Douglas Street, Port
    Moresby (tel. 675-321-1455; fax 675-321-3423). The mailing address is 4240
    Port Moresby Pl., U.S. Department of State, Washington, DC 20521-4240.

    TRAVEL AND BUSINESS INFORMATION
    The U.S. Department of State's Consular Information Program provides Consular
    Information Sheets, Travel Warnings, and Public Announcements. Consular
    Information Sheets exist for all countries and include information on entry
    requirements, currency regulations, health conditions, areas of instability,
    crime and security, political disturbances, and the addresses of the U.S.
    posts in the country. Travel Warnings are issued when the State Department
    recommends that Americans avoid travel to a certain country. Public
    Announcements are issued as a means to disseminate information quickly about
    terrorist threats and other relatively short-term conditions overseas which
    pose significant risks to the security of American travelers. Free copies of
    this information are available by calling the Bureau of Consular Affairs at
    202-647-5225 or via the fax-on-demand system: 202-647-3000. Consular
    Information Sheets and Travel Warnings also are available on the Consular
    Affairs Internet home page: http://travel.state.gov. Consular Affairs Tips
    for Travelers publication series, which contain information on obtaining
    passports and planning a safe trip abroad are on the internet and hard copies
    can be purchased from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government
    Printing Office, telephone: 202-512-1800; fax 202-512-2250.

    Emergency information concerning Americans traveling abroad may be obtained
    from the Office of Overseas Citizens Services at (202) 647-5225. For
    after-hours emergencies, Sundays and holidays, call 202-647-4000.

    Passport information can be obtained by calling the National Passport
    Information Center's automated system ($.35 per minute) or live operators 8
    a.m. to 8 p.m. (EST) Monday-Friday ($1.05 per minute). The number is
    1-900-225-5674 (TDD: 1-900-225-7778). Major credit card users (for a flat
    rate of $4.95) may call 1-888-362-8668 (TDD: 1-888-498-3648). It also is
    available on the internet.

    Travelers can check the latest health information with the U.S. Centers for
    Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta, Georgia. A hotline at 877-FYI-TRIP
    (877-394-8747) and a web site at http://www.cdc.gov/travel/index.htm give the
    most recent health advisories, immunization recommendations or requirements,
    and advice on food and drinking water safety for regions and countries. A
    booklet entitled Health Information for International Travel (HHS publication
    number CDC-95-8280) is available from the U.S. Government Printing Office,
    Washington, DC 20402, tel. (202) 512-1800.

    Information on travel conditions, visa requirements, currency and customs
    regulations, legal holidays, and other items of interest to travelers also
    may be obtained before your departure from a country's embassy and/or
    consulates in the U.S. (for this country, see "Principal Government
    Officials" listing in this publication).

    U.S. citizens who are long-term visitors or traveling in dangerous areas are
    encouraged to register at the U.S. embassy upon arrival in a country (see
    "Principal U.S. Embassy Officials" listing in this publication). This may
    help family members contact you in case of an emergency.

    Further Electronic Information
    Department of State Web Site. Available on the Internet at http://state.gov,
    the Department of State web site provides timely, global access to official
    U.S. foreign policy information, including  Background Notes; daily press
    briefings; Country Commercial Guides; directories of key officers of Foreign
    Service posts and more.

    National Trade Data Bank (NTDB). Operated by the U.S. Department of Commerce,
    the NTDB contains a wealth of trade-related information. It is available on
    the Internet (www.stat-usa.gov) and on CD-ROM. Call the NTDB Help-Line at
    (202) 482-1986 for more information.

***********************************************************
See http://www.state.gov/r/pa/bgn/ for all Background notes
************************************************************
To change your subscription, go to http://www.state.gov/www/listservs_cms.html
