Received: (qmail 3359 invoked from network); 8 Jan 2003 00:08:34 -0000
Received: from dev211.mailshell.com (HELO mailshell.com) (71.129.195.163)
  by dev50.mailshell.com with SMTP; 8 Jan 2003 00:08:34 -0000
Received: (qmail 28719 invoked by uid 99); 8 Jan 2003 00:08:34 -0000
Received: (qmail 4024 invoked from network); 8 Jan 2003 00:08:30 -0000
Received: from unknown (HELO mercury.afnews.af.mil) (207.133.188.6)
  by www.mailshell.com with SMTP; 8 Jan 2003 00:08:30 -0000
Message-ID: <LYRIS-203436-120322-2003.01.07-18.00.01--nospam#MAILSHELL.COM@mercury.afnews.af.mil>
From: usafnews@afnews.af.mil
To: "Mailshell User" <nospam@mailshell.com>
Subject: Air Force Print News for Jan. 7, 2003
Date: Tue, 7 Jan 2003 15:36:45 -0600 
MIME-Version: 1.0
X-Mailer: Internet Mail Service (5.5.2650.21)
Content-Type: text/plain
List-Unsubscribe: <mailto:leave-afns-203436L@mercury.afnews.af.mil>
Reply-To: usafnews@afnews.af.mil

Welcome to today's U.S. Air Force Print News.


Fueling the fight 
-- http://www.af.mil/news/Jan2003/10703564.shtml

U.S. increasing troops in gulf; war still not inevitable 
-- http://www.af.mil/news/Jan2003/10703565.shtml

Congress funds more than $2 billion in construction projects 
-- http://www.af.mil/news/Jan2003/10703561.shtml

Officer assignments move beyond 'seven-day option' 
-- http://www.af.mil/news/Jan2003/10703563.shtml

Pretty as a picture 
-- http://www.af.mil/news/Jan2003/10703562.shtml



All stories in this message as well as any referenced images are in the
public domain and do not require copyright release. Story submissions should
be sent to news@afnews.af.mil. To unsubscribe from this service, scroll to
the bottom of this message for instructions. 

For special coverage and features on the Air Force's support of Operation
Enduring Freedom, see the special section on Air Force Link at
http://www.af.mil/news/efreedom/index.shtml. Here you can get the latest
news, images, background, transcripts of key statements, and letters and
commentaries.

Commentaries are posted on Tuesdays and Fridays. To see the current
commentary, please click here: http://www.af.mil/news/indexedit.shtml 



America's Air Force... No One Comes Close 


Fueling the fight

OPERATION ENDURING FREEDOM (AFPN) -- Staff Sgts. Ben Hritz (left) and Dave
Follmuth help pull a 900-pound fuel bladder into place at Al Udeid Air Base,
Qatar. Both are fuels technicians with the 379th Air Expeditionary Wing.
Fuels workers currently maintain approximately 1 million gallons of fuel for
KC-10 Extender and KC-135 Stratotanker aircraft at the base supporting
Operation Enduring Freedom. (Photo by Staff Sgt. Cherie A. Thurlby) 



U.S. increasing troops in gulf; war still not inevitable

by Kathleen T. Rhem
American Forces Press Service

WASHINGTON (AFPN) -- The U.S. military is building up forces in the Persian
Gulf, but that is not a sign war with Iraq is inevitable, Defense Secretary
Donald Rumsfeld said Jan. 7. 

Rumsfeld and Joint Chiefs Chairman Gen. Richard Myers refused to discuss
specific numbers of troops in or headed to the region. Longstanding military
policy prohibits such releases. 

Both men told reporters at a Pentagon briefing that the forces are being
moved to the gulf to give the president as many options as possible in
dealing with Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein. 

"We want to ensure that we are prepared to provide the president as much
flexibility as possible," Myers said. 

Still, Rumsfeld added, none of this means war cannot be averted. He said
that President Bush "is determined to see what takes place" regarding Iraq.
Recent international attention on the country has already led to some
positive signs, he added. 

"Because of the emphasis that (President Bush, Congress and the United
Nations) have put on this problem, we are seeing that Iraq is allowing
inspectors in and behaving in a manner that's somewhat different from that
which it's been behaving in over the preceding years," Rumsfeld said. 

The secretary said the United States has received offers of support from
many other nations. 

"Countries across the globe have been coming forward and discussing with us
ways that they can be helpful," he said. 

These offers have included military assistance both during and after a
possible conflict, and civilian aid in rebuilding Iraq. 

Rumsfeld once again suggested Saddam Hussein could avoid military action by
simply leaving Iraq. 

"The first choice would be that Saddam Hussein pick up and leave the country
tonight," he said. "That would be nice for everybody." (Courtesy of American
Forces Press Service) 




Congress funds more than $2 billion in construction projects

by Staff Sgt. C. Todd Lopez
Air Force Print News

WASHINGTON -- Congress approved more than $2 billion to fund Air Force
construction projects over the next year. 

The fiscal 2003 National Defense Authorization Act includes $1.3 billion in
funding for Air Force military construction, including dormitories, fitness
centers, force protection projects and operational infrastructure projects.
An additional $689 million in funding was approved for construction or
improvement of military family housing. 

According to the Air Force engineering division chief, $339 million of that
funding will be used to construct infrastructure for new mission or mission
realignment related construction. 

"New missions (mean) missions for new weapons systems, such as the F/A-22
(Raptor) or C-17 (Globemaster III)," Col. Andrew Scrafford said. "(The
F/A-22) is an entirely new mission -- you are going from an F-15 (Eagle) at
Langley Air Force Base, (Va.,) to F/A-22s." 

At Langley and Nellis AFB, Nev., more than $40 million will be used for
F/A-22 support. That money, explained Scrafford, goes to build
infrastructure to support the new weapons systems. 

"Usually hangars and squadron operations facilities," he said. 

Besides funding construction projects for new or realigned missions, the act
authorizes nearly $125 million for dormitory construction at nine bases in
the continental United States and one in South Korea. Nearly $50 million
will be used for environmental projects, and $34 million will be used to
fund construction of or improvement to fitness facilities at Andersen AFB,
Guam; Royal Air Force Lakenheath, England; and Hanscom AFB, Mass. 

In all, about $1.07 billion is authorized for funding the more than 100
active-duty Air Force military construction projects slated to begin in
fiscal 2003. 

But not all money authorized will be used to fund military construction
projects at active-duty bases, Scrafford said. Funding is also targeted for
the Air National Guard and the Air Force Reserve. More than $204 million is
aimed at construction projects that include infrastructure supporting the
KC-135 Stratotanker at Sioux Gateway Airport in Sioux City, Iowa, and C-17
infrastructure at Jackson, Miss., International Airport. 

"They don't have those aircraft at those locations at this time," Scrafford
said. "So bedding those new weapons systems down is going to take some
military construction funds. That's why we consider it (a) new mission or
force realignment -- it is a change to the way in which current
installations operate." 

The Air Force Reserve component will see more than $85 million for new
construction projects. 

Overall, the fiscal 2003 Air Force military construction program includes
145 projects in 36 states, the District of Columbia, and nine foreign
countries or territories. 

Construction will begin within the fiscal year on most of the projects,
Scrafford said. 

"We have had a good history of having the project (contracts) awarded within
the year," he said. "Whether or not the project actually starts depends on
the major command. Within the next 18 months all awarded projects will be
under construction, but within the first year we expect construction to have
started on 50 to 75 percent of the projects." 

Besides operational and military construction, the act authorizes nearly
$690 million for construction of family housing, said Col. James P. Holland,
division chief for Air Force housing. Receipt of that money, he explained,
is based on the Air Force family housing master plan. 

"Currently the plan is laid out to replace or improve all of our Air Force
housing by 2010," Holland said. "Our fiscal 2003 budget is based on that, so
normally we receive funding at or above that." 

The fiscal 2003 money, Holland said, will be used to construct or improve
housing at some 29 Air Force installations worldwide. 

"We're going to wind up replacing 2,079 houses and constructing 115 new
houses in 2003," Holland said. 




Officer assignments move beyond 'seven-day option'

by Maj. John J. Thomas
Air Force Personnel Center Public Affairs

RANDOLPH AIR FORCE BASE, Texas (AFPN) -- Following secretary of the Air
Force guidance, Air Force Personnel Center officials reviewed and improved
what was called the "seven-day option" policy for officer assignments. 

Those officers who would be eligible to separate or retire instead of taking
an assignment will now get more than seven days to act. Also, a general
officer will review the assignment before the final decision is made. In the
past, these officers were given seven days to elect to take the assignment
or apply to leave the Air Force. 

After an intense study of the processes many officers use to make those
critical decisions, personnel officials made changes that will result in
more formal communication earlier in the process between assignment teams,
commanders and the affected officer. This will let officers and Air Force
officials make the best possible decisions on potential moves. 

Before an officer leaves the Air Force as a result of a permanent
change-of-station-related decision, a general officer will "ensure that it's
the right decision for the individual and for the Air Force," said Maj. Gen.
Thomas O'Riordan, the center commander. 

Only about 1 percent of officers typically express the intention to leave
the Air Force instead of taking an assignment, officials said. 

"What hasn't changed is that our first priority remains filling Air Force
needs so we provide a ready and capable Air Force for combatant commanders,"
said Col. Chris Miller, director of assignments here. "What has changed is
that we're taking extra care to consider the impact on future capabilities
of letting an experienced officer leave the service who we might possibly be
able to retain. 

"That sometimes means we need to work with individuals and commanders to
explore all reasonable options," he said. 

"The needs of the Air Force come first," O'Riordan said. "We will not be
able to please every person. But it's worth the effort if we can find some
common ground to retain a valuable officer." 

For now, senior leaders have agreed that enlisted assignment procedures do
not need to change, officials said. 

"We've looked hard and found no clear benefit to changing today's enlisted
assignment system," said Chief Master Sgt. Carlton McCoy, superintendent of
the airman assignments division here. 

"Of course that doesn't mean we aren't always looking for ways to improve.
It only means we're not making any changes to the enlisted assignment
declination policy at this time," the chief said. (Courtesy of AFPC News
Service) 




Pretty as a picture

WASHINGTON (AFPN) -- Air Force Chief of Staff Gen. John P. Jumper (left)
looks on as artist Mickey Harris (center) and Brent W. Perkins, executive
director of the Memphis Belle War Memorial Foundation, unveil Harris'
painting of the Memphis Belle during a ceremony in the Pentagon on Jan. 6.
The painting of the Boeing B-17 Flying Fortress was dedicated to the Air
Force Art Program on behalf of the Memphis Belle Memorial Association and
the foundation. The Memphis Belle belonged to the 91st Bombardment Group
(Heavy) during World War II and was the first bomber to complete 25 combat
missions before returning to the United States. (Photo by Tech. Sgt. Jim
Varhegyi) 






Try these other U.S. Air Force news and information products:
Air Force Print News - http://www.af.mil/news/ -- daily news from around the Air Force, produced Monday through Friday. 
Enduring Freedom - http://www.af.mil/news/efreedom/ -- an Air Force Link special that highlights the Air Force's involvement on the war against terrorism and homeland security. 
Airman Magazine - http://www.af.mil/news/airman/ -- a monthly magazine of indepth news and features showcasing America’s Air Force.
Air Force Television News – http://af.feedroom.com/?fr_chl=30755134465444c91b0d2d4e2c6e1f4b4575760b -- Air Force Television News is produced bi-weekly.
Air Force Radio News – http://af.feedroom.com/?fr_chl=fecab8607aaae01948e77ffb45d121864d98aa02 -- Air Force Radio News is produced Monday through Friday.
Air Force Policy Letter Digest – http://www.af.mil/lib/policy/ -- a monthly compilation of policy news from throughout the Air Force.
Air Force Press Releases – http://www.af.mil/news/press_releases/ -- news releases on current Air Force issues and events.
--------
You are currently subscribed to afns as: nospam@MAILSHELL.COM
If you wish to cancel your subscription at anytime, simply send a blank email to leave-afns-203436L@mercury.afnews.af.mil
